SPEC CPU2000 Benchmark Description File

Benchmark Name: APPLU

Benchmark Author: Sisira Weeratunga

Benchmark Program General Category: Computational Fluid Dynamics and
                                    Computational Physics

Benchmark Description: Solution of five coupled nonlinear PDE's, on a
                       3-dimensional logically structured grid, using
                       an implicit psuedo-time marching scheme, based
                       on two-factor approximate factorization of the
                       sparse Jacobian matrix. This scheme is functionally
                       equivalent to a nonlinear block SSOR iterative
                       scheme with lexicographic ordering. Spatial
                       discretization of the differential operators are
                       based on second-order accurate finite volume scheme.
                       Insists on the strict lexicographic ordering during
                       the solution of the regular sparse lower and upper
                       triangular matrices. As a result, the degree of
                       exploitable parallelism during this phase is limited
                       to O(N**2) as opposed to O(N**3) in other phases
                       and it's spatial distribution is non-homogenous.
                       This fact also creates challenges during the loop
                       re-ordering to enhance the cache locality.

Input Description: There are two approaches to control the memory
                   and run-time requirements of the benchmark:
                   a) change in mesh size,
                   b) change in number of time steps taken.
                   For a fixed mesh size, run-time varies linearly
                   with the number of time steps taken.
                   Currently, input decks are available for
                   several different pairs of mesh cubic sizes and
                   the number of time steps taken. Realistic workloads
                   would involve meshes that contain in excess of 125,000
                   mesh points (i.e., 51X51X51 grid) and at least several
                   hundred time steps.

Output Description: The program is capable of automatically verifying
                    whether a given run conforms to the specification
                    of the benchmark by using internally stored reference
                    solutions. However, these reference solutions are
                    available only for a fixed number of mesh size/time steps
                    pairs. If the input data does not correspond to any of
                    the internally stored reference solutions, the verification
                    test is not performed. Otherwise, the output indicates
                    whether or not the run was successfull in meeting
                    the requirements of the verifications tests. To conform
                    to the specification of the benchmark, a run should
                    successfully pass all three verification tests. Failure
                    in any one or more tests indicates non-conformance
                    with the specifications.

Programming Language: Fortran 77

Known portability issues: None

Reference: E. Barszcz, R. Fatoohi, V. Venkatkrishnan and S. Weeratunga
           "Solution of Regular Sparse Triangular Systems on Vector
            and Distributed-Memory Multiprocessors",
           Rept. No: RNR-93-007, NASA Ames Research Center, 1993
  http://www.nas.nasa.gov/Pubs/TechReports/ebarszcz/RNR-93-007/RNR-93-007.html

