SPEC CPU2000 Benchmark Description File
 
Benchmark Name: 253.perlbmk
 
Benchmark Author: Larry Wall, et. al.
 
Benchmark Program General Category: programming language
 
Benchmark Description:

  253.perlbmk is a cut-down version of Perl v5.005_03, the popular scripting
  language.  SPEC's version of Perl has had most of OS-specific features
  removed.  In addition to the core Perl interpreter, several third-party
  modules are used:
	  MD5 v1.7
	  MHonArc v2.3.3
	  IO-stringy v1.205
	  MailTools v1.11
	  TimeDate v1.08

  Sources for all of the freely-available components used in 253.perlbmk can
  be found in $SPEC/original.src/253.perlbmk.

Input Description:

  The reference workload for 253.perlbmk consists of four scripts:

   The primary component of the workload is the freeware email-to-HTML
   converter MHonArc.  Email messages are generated from a set of random
   components and converted to HTML.  In addition to MHonArc, which was
   lightly patched to avoid file I/O, this component also uses several
   standard modules from the CPAN (Comprehensive Perl Archive Network).

   Another script (which also uses the mail generator for convienience)
   excercises a slightly-modified version of the 'specdiff' script, which is
   a part of the CPU2000 tool suite.

   The third script finds perfect numbers using the standard iterative
   algorithm.  Both native integers and the Math::BigInt module are used.

   Finally, the fourth script tests only that the psuedo-random numbers are
   coming out in the expected order, and does not really contribute very much
   to the overall runtime.

  The training workload is similar, but not identical, to the reference
  workload.  The test workload consists of the non-system-specific parts of
  the acutal Perl 5.005_03 test harness.

Output Description:

  In the case of the mail-based benchmarks, a line with salient
  characteristics (number of header lines, number of body lines, etc) is
  output for each message generated.  During processing, MD5 hashes of the
  contents of output "files" (in memory) are computed and output.

  For the perfect number finder, the operating mode (BigInt or native) is
  output, along with intermediate progress and, of course, the perfect
  numbers.

  Output for the random number check is simply every 1000th random number
  generated.
 
Programming Language: ANSI C
 
Known portability issues:

  Perl is not 64-bit clean, and causes problems with at least one vendor's
  compiler when compiled in 64-bit mode with very high optimization.
 
References:

  Perl Mongers: http://www.perl.org/
  O'Reilly's Perl Pages: http://www.perl.com/
  The Comprehensive Perl Archive Network: http://www.cpan.org/
  MHonArc: http://www.oac.uci.edu/indiv/ehood/mhonarc.html
