SPEC CPU2000 Benchmark Description File

Benchmark Name: 178.galgel

Benchmark Author: Alexander Gelfgat

Benchmark Program General Category:  Computational Fluid Dynamics

Benchmark Description:

  This problem is a particular case of the GAMM (Gesellschaft fuer
  Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik) benchmark devoted to numerical
  analysis of oscillatory instability of convection in
  low-Prandtl-number fluids [1].

  The physical problem is the following.  There is a rectangular box
  filled by a liquid whose Prandtl number is Pr=0.015.  The aspect
  ratio of the cavity length/height is 4.  The left and right vertical
  walls are maintained at at higher and lower temperatures
  respectively.  This causes a convective motion in the liquid.  When
  the temperature difference is relatively small the convective flow
  is steady.  The flow looses its stability and become oscillatory
  when the temperature difference exceeds a certain value.

  The buoyancy force, which causes the convective flow, is
  characterized by a parameter called Grashof number.  Besides all,
  the Grashof number (Gr) is proportional to the characteristic
  temperature difference (difference of the temperatures at the
  vertical walls in this case).

  The task of the GAMM benchmark is to calculate the critical value of the
  Grashof number which corresponds to a bifurcation from steady to
  oscillatory state of the flow.  Together with the critical Gr it is
  necessary to calculate the critical frequency (the frequency of the
  resulting oscillations when Gr is equal to its critical value).

  The critical values (critical Grashof number and critical frequency)
  depend on all parameters of the problem and the boundary conditions.
  The GAMM benchmark considers fixed values of the Prandtl number and
  the aspect ratio (0.015 and 4 respectively), and varies the boundary
  conditions.  The boundary conditions used here correspond to the
  Rigid/adiabatic - Free/adiabatic case defined in [1].

  The numerical method used here is the spectral Galerkin method with
  the basis functions defined globally in the whole region of the
  flow.  Detail description of the method may be found in [2].  Some
  test calculations illustrating the advantages of this method may be
  found in [2,3].

  The Galerkin method requires large computer memory required to keep
  all coefficients of the resulting dynamic system.  To avoid this
  some coefficients are recalculated each time when a calculation of
  rhs of the dynamic system is necessary, leading to a rapid increase
  of the required memory and cpu time when the number of the Galerkin
  basis functions is increased.

  A relatively small number of degrees of freedom makes it possible to
  study linear stability of steady solutions, requiring solution of an
  eigenvalue problem, which is usually impossible for an arbitrary CFD
  code.  It becomes possible with the use of the global Galerkin
  method, and it was successfully done for convective flows described
  here [2,5] and for swirling flow in a closed cylindrical container
  [3,4].

  After linear stability analysis is completed and the bifurcation
  point is calculated, we calculate an asymptotic approximation of the
  supercritical flow.  The asymptotic approach used is described in
  [6].  The details on its numerical application may be found in [3].

Input Description:

  A variety of data may be provided via namelist input.  However, only
  the number of basis functions in horizontal and vertical directions
  is provided in the SPEC input, the other data taking default values.


Output Description:

  The output consists of data relating to

  1. Calculation of steady state flow.
     Steady states are calculated using Newton iterations.
  2. Solution of eigenvalue problem corresponding to analysis
     of linear stability of the calculated steady flow.
  3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 until the critical value of a governing
     parameter (Reynolds number, Grashof number, etc.) is found.
  4. Calculate an asymptotic approximation of the oscillatory
     state of the flow. Without going into details (see [3,6]),
     the first term of this asymptotic expansion is defined by two
     scalar numbers which are called here "Mu" and "Tau".
     Stability of the asymptotic oscillatory state is defined by the
     non-zero Floquet exponent, which is also calculated. Negative
     Floquet exponent means stability, and the positive means instability.

     After all stages of calculations are completed, the code
     reports the following five numbers:

        - critical Grashof number
        - critical circular frequency
        - parameter Mu
        - parameter Tau
        - Floquet exponent



Programming Language: Fortran 90

Known portability issues:

  Fixed format fortran 90 source format is used in galgel, usually
  requiring the use of a compiler flag, such as "-fixed", for
  example.

Reference:

  1. Roux B. (ed.) Numerical simulation of oscillatory convection
     in low-Pr fluids:  A GAMM workshop.  Notes on Numerical Fluid
     Mechanics, Vieweg, Braunschweig, vol.27, 1990 .
  2. Gelfgat A.Yu. and Tanasawa I. Numerical analysis of oscillatory
     instability of buoyancy convection with the Galerkin spectral method.
     Numerical Heat Transfer, Part A, vol. 25, pp.627-648, 1994.
  3. Gelfgat A.Yu., Bar-Yoseph P.Z. and Solan A. Stability of confined
     swirling flow with and without vortex breakdown. Journal of Fluid
     Mechanics, vol.311, pp.1-36, 1996.
  4. Gelfgat A.Yu., Bar-Yoseph P.Z. and Solan A. Steady states and
     oscillatory instability of swirling flow in a cylinder with
     rotating top and bottom. Physics of Fluids, vol.8, pp.2614-2625, 1997.
  5. Gelfgat A.Yu., Bar-Yoseph P.Z. and Yarin A. On oscillatory instability
     of convective flows at low Prandtl number. Transactions of ASME,
     Journal of Fluids Engineering, December volume of 1997 (to appear).
  6. Hassard B.D., Kazarinoff N.D., Wan Y.-H. Theory and Applications of
     Hopf bifurcation. Mathematical Society Lecture Notes Series, vo.41.
     London, 1981.
