SPEC CPU2000 Benchmark Description File

Benchmark Name: Eon

Benchmark Author: Peter Shirley, Ken Chiu, Kurt Zimmerman, and Steve Marschner

Benchmark Program General Category: Computer Visualization

Benchmark Description:

  Eon is a probabilistic ray tracer based on Kajiya's 1986 ACM SIGGRAPH 
  conference paper.  It sends a number of 3D lines (rays) into a 3D 
  polygonal model.  Intersections between the lines and the polygons
  are computed, and new lines are generated to compute light incident
  at these intersection points.   The final result of the computation
  is an image as seen by camera.  The computational demands of the program
  are much like a traditional deterministic ray tracer as described in 
  basic computer graphics texts, but it has less memory coherence because
  many of the random rays generated in the same part of the code traverse
  very different parts of 3D space.

Input Description:

  252.eon renders a 150x150 pixel image of a chair sitting in front of 
  a corner in a room.  The input files define the objects in the space
  being rendered by specifying their positions, sizes, reflectivity,
  and luminance.  252.eon is run three times, each time rendering the
  same scene using a different rendering algorithm.  The rendering
  algorithms used are Kajiya, Cook, and Rushmeier.

Output Description:

  Three of the output files contain the ppm formatted images corresponding
  to the three algorithms specified in the inputsets.  These files
  can be viewed using xv or your favorite image viewer:

  chair.cook.ppm
  chair.kajiya.ppm
  chair.rushmeier.ppm

  The other three output files contain the greyscale values for each pixel.
  These values are printed out as floating-point values.  These files
  are created solely for verification of results for the SPEC CPU2000
  benchmarks and are not normally created by the Eon application when
  used for non-benchmarking purposes:

  pixels_out.cook
  pixels_out.kajiya
  pixels_out.rushmeier

Programming Language: C++

Known portability issues:

  -DSPEC_CPU2000_LP64  If you are running in a 64-bit environment and using a
    compiler that supports an LP64 programming model (where "long" and
    pointers are 64-bits in size).

  -DFMAX_IS_DOUBLE     If your compiler won't automatically cast return
    values to the explicitly declared size for a function, you may need this
    flag.  The HP compiler is the only one (so far) that requires this.

  -DNEED_EXPLICIT_SPECIALIZATION   If your compiler requires explicit
    specialization for templatized functions you may need to use this flag.


References: 

  K. Zimmerman and P. Shirley, 
  A Two-Pass Realistic Image Synthesis Method for Complex Scenes.
  Eurographics Rendering Workshop, 1995, pp. 284-295.

  G. Spencer, P. Shirley, K. Zimmerman, and D. Greenberg,
  Physically-Based Glare Effects for Digital Images. 
  SIGGRAPH '95, pp. 325-334.
  
  P. Shirley, C. Wang, K. and Zimmerman, Monte Carlo Techniques for Direct
  Lighting Calculations.  ACM Transactions on Graphics, 1996, pp. 1-36.
  
  K. Chiu, K. Zimmerman and P. Shirley, The Light Volume: an Aid for
  Rendering Complex Scenes. Eurographics Rendering Workshop, 1996, pp. 1-10.
  
  J. Ferwerda, S. Pattanaik, P. Shirley, and D. Greenberg, An Adaptation
  Model for Realistic Image Synthesis. SIGGRAPH '96, pp. 249-258.
  
  S. Marschner and D. Greenberg. Inverse Lighting for Photography.
  IS&T/SID Fifth Color Imaging Conference,
  pages 262-265, November 1997
  
  P. Shirley, H. Hu, B. Smits, E. Lafortune,
  A Practitioners' Assessment of Light Reflection Models.
  Pacific Graphics 97, pp. 40-49.
  
  J. Ferwerda, S. Pattanaik, P. Shirley, and D. Greenberg, A Model of
  Visual Masking for Computer Graphics. SIGGRAPH 97, pp. 91-100.
  
  S. Premoze, W. Thompson, P. Shirley, Geospecific Rendering of Alpine Terrain.
  Eurographics Rendering Workshop, 1999.
  
  A. J. Preetham, P. Shirley, B Smits.
  A Practical Analytic Model for Daylight, SIGGRAPH 99, pp.
